Snake 2048
=========
 The following is a proposal for the ENGE 1104 Spring 2014 Project with accepted guidelines and procedures and based on the PDF rubric on the Virginia Tech Scholar Site. After a brainstorming process involving the group, it was decided that the project would be focused on programming, specifically in Java and for the Android operating system. The coding would be done in the IDE Eclipse and be used to engineer a game that is most easily described as a combination of the classic computer game “snake”(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_(video_game)) and the recent online game “2048”(http://gabrielecirulli.github.io/2048/). The game will function like ‘snake’, with a moving tile that is user controlled and will contain a number. The user will have to “eat” numbers that match the number at the head of their snake, which will merge the numbers together by adding them. When numbers match, they add together. For example, there will be different numbers scattered around the play board and the initial starting value will be 2. Once the user has eaten some numbers, the value could be ‘4242’, and if at this point the user eats a 4, then the tile array will be ‘44242’, which would merge to make 8242. However, if a 2 was “eaten”, then it would just be concatenated to the front like so: ‘24242’. When a tile reaches a certain size, it will disappear, through the exact size that would work for this is yet to be determined and will have to be tested. This would allow an area of forgiveness if the user was overwhelmed with numbers and was going to lose the game unless numbers disappeared to make room for more.

 

    This project addresses concepts primarily in the field of Computer Science. From an understanding of MATLab from the Engineering lectures and workshops, and a basic understanding of the IDE Eclipse, our team will use Java to code a complex video game, incorporating mathematical operations and interface design. Because our project will not have a conventional “physical” model and will instead be primarily digital, there will not be much hardware other than a computer used to present it or use it. However, there will be some basic snippets of code that will be re-used for set up methods from earlier, but vastly different, games that team members have made previously. All code that will be used has been internally developed by a member of the team, though this may be subject to change based on approval from the instructor.
# Snake - 2048 @Seth Balodi
